Grab a dictionary and look up the word change
and you'll see some troubling associations.
Change can result in uncertainty, instability and chaos,
things that aren't always associated with success.
So how do you keep innovating
without spiraling out of control?
Change management models can introduce order
back into the equation.
Let's explore these models
and examine five of the most common ones.
Change management models are frameworks for driving
and understanding organizational change.
Multiple models exist,
all with different purposes and functions.
For example, some models help businesses decide
what to change.
Others guide organizations
through the implementation process
and some help companies recognize
and respond to their employees' emotional reactions.
Following a change management model
leaves fewer things up to chance.
A model can help you set realistic expectations
and guide you through reliable steps.
The easiest way to make sense of this concept
is to explore some popular frameworks.
Let break down five fundamental models and how they work.
First is the McKinsey 7S model
which identifies seven elements that companies must align
when planning for and implementing change.
The elements are split into two categories.
We begin with hard S's which are concrete.
First, strategy refers to your company's goals
and business plan.
Structure covers how departments and teams are organized
and systems are your company's procedures and rules.
Next, the McKinsey model looks at soft S's
which are more subjective.
The list begins with shared values,
the things that matter most to your company and teams.
Next is style.
How are things done?
Then, there's your staff, the people doing the work.
Finally, what are your employees' skills and talents?
The McKinsey model sheds light on company weak spots
to help determine what needs to change.
This model can also help ensure
that your organization stays aligned throughout the process.
If you need implementation help,
try Lewin's 3-Step model.
This strategy breaks change into three stages.
First, you must unfreeze the status quo
and get everyone ready for the transition.
Next, you put the proposed change into practice,
allowing employees to learn, make mistakes and adjust.
Finally, the organization locks the change into place
for the refreeze stage.
The old way of doing things is officially out.
Overall, Lewin's model helps organizations
communicate their plan, implement that change,
and make the transition stick
by outlining what to expect and do during each stage.
If you're hoping for a more people-focused approach,
consider Kotter's 8-Step model.
Begin by creating a sense of urgency.
Then, build a core coalition
to drive the proposed change forward.
Next, create a strategy
around how things will be done differently
and form a strategic vision.
With that in place,
get everyone on the same page by communicating the vision.
And then, remove barriers by identifying obstacles
to the change.
Once the change is deployed,
you can focus on generating short-term wins.
To sustain acceleration,
analyze what is and isn't working
and make adjustments.
Finally, you institute the change as an integral part
of the workplace culture.
Through strategic planning and gradual implementation,
Kotter's model creates a sense of urgency
and prepares employees for change,
helping them become more receptive to upcoming transitions.
If you wanna take the people-focused approach further,
consider the Kubler-Ross model
which is split into five emotional, nonlinear stages.
The first stage is denial,
a refusal to believe that change is happening.
Next is anger,
when employees are hostile toward the change.
When they accept the change's inevitability,
employees move into the bargaining stage.
If employees feel like they don't have control,
they may enter a state of depression.
Finally, once employees resigned to the change,
they've reached acceptance of the new normal.
Given its focus on emotions,
the Kubler-Ross model is best for companies
hoping to empathize with employees
and respond to their emotions appropriately.
The last strategy we'll consider is the Satir model
which predicts and tracks
how emotions impact performance in five steps.
First is the late status quo
which refers to life before change.
Employees feel comfortable
and performance is fairly consistent.
Next, a change is introduced.
Employees may resist the change
resulting in a sudden performance drop.
When the change is implemented, chaos ensues.
Companies can expect performance to decline
as employees may feel confused and anxious.
Over time, employees adjust
and enter the integration stage.
Performance improves for the first time
since the change was introduced.
Finally, the change becomes the new status quo.
If all goes according to plan,
performance reaches its highest level yet.
While the Satir model doesn't affect employee performance,
it does help set realistic expectations,
plus, it makes tracking performance easier.
Change is unstable
but you don't need to go at it alone.
Change management models can help you through shaky times,
giving you a clear roadmap to plot expectations
and action steps.
By taking advantage of change management models,
you can chart a course for success
and your next change process.